[Music]
over the years scientists have uncovered
many of the human brains mysteries and
shortcomings that were securely hidden
in our psyche sometimes we do something
weird and then think what was the logic
of my behavior was it there
in fact there's always some logic but
most often it hides in certain
peculiarities of your mind you don't
necessarily have to be an expert in
psychology to understand what's going on
in people's heads and use it to your
advantage there are some psychological
tips that work on a subconscious level
that help you win another person's trust
get somebody's approval and relax when
you're stressed out today we're going to
tell you about psychological effects
that affect you almost every day watch
the video till the end to understand why
we always want something that is
impossible to achieve and why we act one
way or another
[Music]
when a group of people are laughing each
person looks at the individual he or she
likes the most
after a good joke or in the middle of an
interesting discussion every person
instinctively looks at the person they
like the most this is because they want
to make sure that the object of their
desires approves of and shares their
sense of humor so in order to find out
everything about a group of friends get
a few really good jokes ready and watch
everybody like a hawk your observations
might turn out really surprising the
anchoring effect people feel it's much
easier to evaluate something if they
have the original price even if it's
wrong as kind of an anchor it's often
used by stores for example you wouldn't
buy a blouse for $300 in your right mind
however if you see it originally cost a
thousand dollars you'll think it's a sin
to miss such a great deal even though
the initial price might be invented
[Music]
we tend to see our memories as small
movies or video clips things that lie on
some shelf inside our brain safe and
unalterable but as it turns out
recollections of past events change
every time they pass before our mind's
eye their content is influenced by
memory blackouts and by events that took
place in the more recent past for
example you don't have clear
recollections of all the people who
attended a family get-together a couple
of years ago but since your aunt never
misses events of this kind your mind
eventually includes her in the memories
even if she was absent on that
particular occasion chew on something
when you're nervous before an important
conversation a public speech or another
event that makes you nervous you should
try to choose some gum or even eat
something a 2011 study at Tokyo medical
and dental University concluded that the
chewing motion greatly reduces feelings
of anxiety the thing is that nobody eats
when they're in danger so while you're
chewing your brain thinks it's safe to
relax it sends a signal that relieves
tension it helps calm you down
you're basically tricking your own brain
the same Tokyo research explains that
some ancient Mayans and Greeks who used
to chew on tree resin were less tense
than their peers who didn't share this
habit oh maybe this is where the
expression she really chewed him out
came from Wow that would make her a
stressed-out cannibal okay maybe not
[Music]
deflection to the result we often judge
the correctness of a decision by the
final result not by the actions taken to
achieve it this effect is often used by
those ads which concentrate you only on
the final result for example on buying
so if you're using a brand new iPhone
you cannot claim that the decision to
spend all your money on it was right
psychologists and sociologists have come
up with something called the Dunbar's
number not dumb and Dumberer the maximum
number of people with whom a person can
maintain close ties so even if you have
thousands of friends on Facebook you can
only have meaningful communication with
50 to 200 of them steering can help you
get any information you need if you
don't like the answer someone has given
you or it seems they're not telling you
the whole story just keep staring at
them in this situation the silence will
be so unbearable that they'll be ready
to tell you anything just to end it
after all the purpose of a stair is
persuasion try it out and see if it
works if you're successful give us a
thumbs up hey my dog uses that on me all
the time the paradox of choice the
paradox of choice says that the more
options there are the less possibility
we'll be happy with our final choice
keep in mind that sometimes you buy
something and then regret it because you
could have bought it on sale or you
could have found another model even if
the final decision is the best we can
stay unhappy because the choice was too
big
imagine that you're at the airport and
you need to pick up the luggage in ten
minutes
you reach the claim area and immediately
collect your suitcase and now a slightly
different situation you find a shortcut
and managed to get to the baggage
carousel in just two minutes then you
spend the remaining eight minutes
waiting for your suitcase to appear in
both cases it took you no more than ten
minutes to pick up the luggage however
in the second scenario you probably felt
more impatient and dissatisfied this is
due to the fact that our brain dislikes
being idle and prefers to stay busy
instead and for every task completed it
rewards us with dopamine the hormone of
happiness ah dopamine
imagine that your future employer is a
good friend of yours to avoid getting
the jitters during an oral exam or a job
interview imagine that the person in
front of you is a friend you haven't
seen in ages
this will help calm you down really
quickly and answering the person's
questions will be much easier
another point to keep in mind why not
consider the possibility that the
interviewer is as nervous as you are you
never know maybe it's their first hiring
interview or their first exam as a
teacher and if you come in with a smile
you'll not only feel more confident
yourself but put them at ease too
clustering illusion this illusion is
characterized by the tendency to see a
certain system in random coincidences
this especially applies to gamblers and
lovers of fate signs
both of them can wrongly interpret
events don't wind yourself up okay
[Music]
studies show that our brain can store no
more than three to four pieces of
information at once in addition this
info can only be preserved for 20 to 30
seconds after this time we forget it
unless we keep refreshing it in our
memory over and over again for instance
let's say you're driving and talking on
the phone don't do that the person on
the other end gives you a number but you
can't write it down so you try to
memorize it instead you repeat the
number again and again so as to preserve
it in your short-term memory until you
can disconnect and write it down by the
way the fact that we find it easier to
remember three to four pieces of
information at a time explains why so
many things consist of three to four
digits or lines
if you have to work with people a lot
put a mirror behind you if you have to
talk to a lot of people at work hang a
small mirror behind your desk you'll be
surprised that many people will be more
polite and ready to meet you halfway in
negotiations this is because nobody
likes to see themselves angry or annoyed
how cool is that and the most important
thing is that these psychological tips
work by the way we have a lot more
videos that reveal the secrets of human
psychology
check out the links at the top of the
screen once you've watched this video
till the end pratfall effect imagine a
couple walking down the street and one
of them suddenly hits a pole it's
unlikely the other one will think what
an idiot on the contrary the first one
will seem even sweeter it's because
perfection is repulsive and mistakes are
attractive they make us more human
that's why you shouldn't get too upset
having stumbled in front of anyone our
brain constantly processes information
received from sensory organs it analyzes
visual images and interprets them in a
form accessible to us for example the
reason for us being able to read a text
quickly lies in the fact that we're not
actually reading it we simply notice the
first and last letters of each word and
intuitively fill in the rest based on
our past experience as the saying goes
it doesn't matter in what order the
letters appear in a word if the first
and last letters remain in place well
that was weird
see we look at groups of jumbled letters
yet perceive them as proper words and
this doesn't just happen with texts
[Music]
if you think someone is looking at you
just yawn
oddly enough yawning is like the common
call there's even a phenomenon called
contagious yawning it's typical for
humans and chimpanzees to yawn when they
see here or just think about yawning
some individuals are less influenced by
others yawns but out of 328 participants
of a study conducted at the Duke
University School of Medicine 222 yawn
while watching a video of people yawning
are you yawning right now just hearing a
boat for those hmm that works so it's
more likely than not you'll be able to
use yawning to see who's watching you to
figure it out just yawn and look around
in most cases the person who is staring
at you will yawn too not only that but
if you do this when the Sun comes up you
can yawn at dawn thank you very much
the Kuleshov effect the effect when a
viewer after seeing two unrelated frames
unconsciously makes up a logical
connection between them is called the
Kuleshov effect Kuleshov created a short
film in which a man's facial expression
was alternated with various shots the
audience thought that his facial
expression was different each time
depending on whether he was looking at a
plate of soup a dead girl or a woman on
a sofa however his face was the same all
the time
this effect is successfully used not
only among cinematographers but also
among marketers instilling in you
certain associations with a certain
product or character imagine you're at
work studying an important document
suddenly you realize that you've just
read the same sentence three times in a
row instead of analyzing the text your
mind was wandering scientists from the
university of california say that every
day we spend 30 percent of our time
daydreaming sometimes sometimes for
instance during long trips this share
increases to as much as 70% but there's
nothing wrong with it
studies show that people who love to
wander in the clouds tend to be more
creative also they're better at solving
problems and getting rid of stress
[Music]
[Applause]
if you want to break up a fight get
something to eat and stand between
people who are fighting this is called
the snack man effect really the story
goes that one day a fight broke out on a
New York subway train a woman attacked a
man who she claimed had been following
her in the middle of the fight another
man got up and stepped between them he
stood there for some time just
nonchalantly snacking on his Pringles
miraculously the fighting passengers
chilled out and peace was restored the
hero of the day was dubbed the snack man
and became internet famous there's a
simple psychological explanation for
what happened that day eating is
associated with relaxation and being
calm the probability of a person
attacking someone who is eating is very
low so the conflict resolves itself in
no time body negative body negative is a
condition where a person thinks they're
ugly and this is why their personal life
is a fail and their whole life is a fail
most often such people are attractive
and the problem is more about
self-esteem than real flaws
have you ever wondered why people always
stop to look at the aftermath of a road
accident
even though bystanders find the site
distressing they continue to gawk such
curiosity is triggered by our ancient
brain a section responsible for survival
its function is to constantly scan the
environment posing and answering three
questions can I eat that can I have sex
with that can I be killed by that
actually there's a fourth question can i
buy that at a discount food sex and
danger are still the things fundamental
to our staying alive
so we can't help but pay attention to
them if you want to get rid of something
just hand it to someone while talking to
them imagine you're moving boxes or
picking up around the house if you need
a helping hand but no one is offering
just ask someone nearby a personal
question or their opinion on something
when the person is answering the
question their brain is so busy
formulating thoughts that all other
actions switch to autopilot in this
situation your conversation partner will
take whatever you give them without even
thinking I can wait to try that one
[Music]
[Applause]
survivorship bias most often we judge a
situation only by successful people
survivors and that's why we know just
one side of it for example we envy a
business person who got rich selling
bengal lights but we don't know how many
business people failed with them you
should always try to look at things from
different angles
[Music]
as part of a recent study scientists set
up two tables in the supermarket on the
first table they place six types of jam
on the second 24 as a result 60% of
customers stop to try the jams at Table
one however when it came to making
purchases Table two proved four times
more popular why did this happen as we
already know our brain can only focus on
three to four things at a time
therefore making final decisions is
easier when there's a limited number of
options such as six types of jam
nevertheless we always crave variety we
love to browse through a wide range of
products that's why we're more likely to
stop by the table with 24 types of jam
although in the end we'll still go for
the same brand we've bought many times
before
[Music]
if you want to easily become friends
with someone just ask them for a favor
it doesn't have to be a huge favor just
something simple passing the sauce a
napkin the sheet of paper or even asking
for some advice the person who's doing
the favor will think they like you
because they're doing something for you
however trivial it may be here's what
one woman says well I never really liked
the guy until one day he asked me to
lend him 20 bucks I then thought he
considered me a close enough maybe even
a friend to help him and voila
I started to like him hard to reach
effect roughly speaking this is the
phenomenon telling that the hard to
reach is always more desirable even if
we look at it from a human level close
high status no one knows what's on their
mind people always seem more attractive
than others we'd like to believe that
all our actions are the result of
careful planning but in reality 60 to 80
percent of our everyday decisions are
made subconsciously okay that's starting
to get annoying we don't think about
doing those things we just do them every
second our brain receives millions of
units of data to prevent over exhaustion
some of the work gets relegated to the
subconscious pocketing the keys turning
off the lights
closing the front door we perform such
actions automatically without thinking
all right take your hand off the Reaver
button you've got it now on the downside
this often leads to self-doubt for
instance when we arrive at the office
and suddenly begin to fret over whether
or not we've turned the iron off
[Music]
schedule important meetings for the
beginning or the end of the day people
remember things best when they happen at
the beginning and the end of the day
everything in between is a blur that's
why we recommend sending up important
meetings for these times of the day if
you have a job interview try to be
either the first or the last candidate
another trick to make participants
attend and be punctual is to specify a
weird time and duration for the meeting
it's called the Swiss trains approach if
a person sees a meeting from 9 22 to 946
on their schedule they're more likely to
be on time and things will stick to the
agenda more precisely the fear of beauty
did you notice that ordinary people are
less likely to sit down next to
beautiful people for example on public
transport they do it only if there are
no other seats left in fact some people
feel excessive tension next to beautiful
people
excitement double control of one's
actions the desire to save face and the
fear of comparison such stress doesn't
arise next to an average person
pay attention to the direction of feet
while talking to other people now
people's feet can help you understand
their true feelings in the conversation
if you come to them and they turn their
body deal but not their feet it means
they're not interested in talking to you
also if the tips of their shoes are
facing a different direction it means
they want to get away as soon as
possible or it could mean that they had
their hips replaced and somehow the
doctor screwed it up not likely but I'm
just saying
[Music]
studies show that we can only perform
one cognitive activity at a time
try talking and reading at once or
writing a letter while listening to an
audio book most likely nothing good will
come of it our brain just can't focus on
two tests simultaneously however there
is an exception if the second activity
is purely physical and automatic the
type of thing that we perform on a day
to day basis then it is possible to
combine both tasks for example you can
talk on the phone while walking but even
then there's a good chance of tripping
and losing track of conversation do you
still need the reverb maybe one last
thing okie-dokie copying other people's
body language will help you win their
trust
repeating somebody's gestures posture or
facial expressions can help you win
their trust the person doesn't
consciously realize that they see
themselves in you because of the
familiar gestures and let's be frank
most people like themselves the most
important thing here is to not overdo it
for instance if they pick their nose
don't mirror that one use common sense
also so that people see that you're
paying attention smile when you're
listening to their good news and frown
at the mention of bad events in their
life
got it another great technique to win
trust is a sincere smile when your smile
isn't forced your mood
proves you start to exude warmth and
people feeling hey are you the one that
takes advantage of these subconscious
tricks which one is your favorite tell
us in the comment section below share
this video with your friends to help
them pass a job interview or win over
their crushes heart remember that there
are many more useful and interesting
things on the bright side of life so
subscribe and see what's coming your way
[Music]
[Laughter]